# Wind-Turbine-Predictive-Maintenance-
Wind patterns across the globe vary over the year and can be unpredictable at times, with this variability in the wind leading to fluctuating loads on wind turbine components. A typical wind turbine consists of more than a dozen bearings that are expected to work simultaneously and continuously for many years. As a result, wind turbine bearings and gearboxes are often susceptible to failure well before their designed service lives. Bearing failures in wind turbines are a significant cause of downtime in energy production for unplanned maintenance, repairs and replacements. This failure resulted in a significant increase in operations and maintenance (O&amp;M) costs for the wind energy operator and in higher utility bills for the customer. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s (NREL) Gearbox Reliability Database (GRD) shows that 76% of gearboxes failed due to bearings, while 17% failed due to gear failures. This shows the importance of reliable bearings and gearboxes for wind turbine operations to the economy and society.
Therefore, early detection of bearing failures, useful in avoiding catastrophic damages and thus minimises maintenance costs. Many techniques based on vibration data have been used for gearbox bearing failures detection; however, extensive SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) datasets are hardly being employed for this purpose.  In this project, we aim to propose novel machine learning techniques based on SCADA datasets for wind turbine gear bearing failures. And then compared with existing techniques in terms of their capability to detect in advance (and by how much) signs of failure, and also their false positive rate.
